What Does DP and UDP keys are the most common protocols used when doing networking.
So we have DCP which is transport layer protocol and we have UDP which is user data gram protocols and
is it is a way of transferring information between computers and over networks and we have a graphical
illustration of how they work right here.
So with DCP we are when sending messages getting an acknowledgement of that message whereas in UDP we
are just communicating one way we are just transferring a lot of data in one direction.
So let's take a closer look at each of these.
So in the TTP This is a connection oriented protocol and it is a one to one oriented protocol as well
meaning that we cannot use it for broadcasting messages because we need to establish a connection between
a client and a server in order for us to communicate.
So TTP is initiating what is called freeway a handshake and that is illustrated in the picture right
here.
So for example if we have a client that want to talk to.
So the first thing that the client is going to do is send the message to the server.
Then the server is acknowledging that message saying that I received your message do you receive mine
then the client say at the last part of this three way.
Yes I received it and now the connection is established.
The reason why we have this three way handshake is because let's take an example where we communicated
to the server and our message got through.
So we said hello server and also say oh yeah I got your message do you got mine.
And then even though we got to the server there might be a firewall rule blocking this message from
us getting back to us meaning that we don't get an acknowledgement.
So in order to confirm that the server can talk to us and we can talk to the server we need this three
way handshake before our connection is established.
So what is the how is the packages that is going to be transferred or what is B.
How does do they look like.
So when we are communicating data or one network we are breaking our communication down to packages
because we just can say here is 10 gigabyte of data and then just throw it at the server.
That doesn't work like that.
We need to divide them into smaller packages that we can then send.
And if you haven't seen the first five years of this course then I recommend you to do so in order to
understand some of these concepts.
But when we are communicating data or one at work we have a stream of data which we can see right here.
So take for example this messages message we have here.
Love Academy if you like of videos Roma to subscribe this is let's say this is along major message.
I know that it is quite short but doesn't mention that this is a very big message.
So what we're going to do when communicating this for example to our friend over a network we're going
to break this down into smaller packages and since this is TGP we need to have a header on our packages.
We also have that with UDP but with TTP we need a 20 by the header and that is because when we are breaking
down these messages as you see right here we are just breaking them down on random places.
So for example this is one package.
This is another package.
And so on meaning that we have 80 base of body left to our data.
So before our friend could understand what we are sending him we need to identify the pages.
So in the header we are going to put port number the size of the package the signature and the number
in the row in the line of pages that we have.
So this is for example package 2 and this line of packages because in TTP we need to confirm that we
have received the package.
So the first thing that we are going to do is to send this first block would only have Vindaloo then
our friend would say Oh yeah I got this package send me the next one and then we're going to send him
off a cat and then send him that and so on.
But imagine if one of these pages got lost then this message will be you couldn't read it because then
he would just get a message of act and you were like What what does that mean.
So that is why we need to say that we need this acknowledgement of pages and we need the number on or
off because then he can say OK I got a package one and then suddenly wait now I've got page three I
must be missing package too.
So he say can you send me a package to again and we will send him package to again.
And then once all packages is sent then our friend will break these down and reassemble them so that
he can read the message.
So this is basically how she's P works.
And since we numbering D Peg these packages we can break our data up any places we don't need to say
that it has to be an entire word because he will know what all to read them and if you are missing he
is missing one.
He would just ask for it.
So UDP this is a different protocol compared to what we have just discussed.
So UDP is to use a data ground protocol and we do not have to verify that we have a connection and there
is no three way handshake in this protocol and we are not limited to one to one communication meaning
that we can use it to broadcast messages.
And as you see on this picture right here our computer client is housing.
Are you getting the messages and our friend is just saying I don't care.
Just send it.
Meaning that just just give me the data and just push it.
I don't care if I miss a package or something and corrupt or whatever I get I'm just.
Just throw them at me because I need them fast.
So how does that work.
When we look at packages and as we saw before we divided our packages into equal sized packages mean
that these are all equal size because we can use the max length of a package because we don't need to
carry about care about the meaning of the words but in UDP we actually does.
Because if you're missing a package then we can't let him have a half word.
We need the entire.
We may need to break the message and data and words make logical sense.
So for example here we are having the first packages with just the word hey and then the next one is.
It's not too late to subscribe.
We need that.
You could still make sense of this word and this sentence even if one of them is lost.
So that is basically the main difference between CCP and UDP.
And since we are not getting all this information about the number of the pages and so on we can have
a much smaller header but we cannot utilize a max max length of the data packages because we need to
make these logical splits and that this makes our packages in different sizes.
So where are the TTP and UDP used for example when you're transferring a file over a network you're
using TTP because you need to be sure that the entire file is getting transferred but UDP on the other
hand is for example use when you're streaming online.
When you have these streaming services which for example YouTube that you're watching now provide for
K views then it doesn't matter if one package get lost or something because the quality will just have
a quick drop and then go up again because you can't be waiting for your server and clan to communicate
say hey you got this package.
Yes send me the next one OK to got this one year I got this one when streaming you just need the data
as fast as possible to keep up the quality and to be able to view it without liking and having the browser
just spinning and waiting.